Add Standalone Activities Interactive Demo page [experimentation] (#4331)
temporalio/documentation: docs/develop/standalone-activities-interactive-demo.mdx

---
id: standalone-activities-interactive-demo
title: Standalone Activities Demo
sidebar_label: Standalone Activities
toc_max_heading_level: 3
keywords:
  - standalone activity
  - interactive demo
tags:
  - Standalone Activities
  - Temporal SDKs
description: An interactive overview of Temporal Standalone Activities.
---

:::tip SUPPORT, STABILITY, and DEPENDENCY INFO

[Standalone Activities](/standalone-activity) are available as a
[Public Preview](/evaluate/development-production-features/release-stages#public-preview) feature
in the Go, Python, and .NET SDKs, and as a
[Pre-release](/evaluate/development-production-features/release-stages#pre-release) feature in the
Java and TypeScript SDKs.

Standalone Activities require Temporal CLI v1.7.0 or higher and Temporal Server v1.31.0 or higher.

:::

Standalone Activities let you run a single Activity straight from your application without

> writing a Workflow. Your code calls the Temporal Client, the Server durably enqueues the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
writing a Workflow. Your code uses the Temporal Client to send the request to the Server, the Server durably enqueues the request
```

for a Worker to pick up, and the result comes back through a handle that your code can wait on or
check later.

Try the demo below to walk through the full flow, tweak the retry and timeout settings, and watch
the SDK code and CLI command update as you go.

import { StandaloneActivityDemo } from '@site/src/components';

<StandaloneActivityDemo />

---

## How it works

> When you call `client.ExecuteActivity()` (or the equivalent in your SDK), the following happens:

Reviewer: The code written there looks like Go SDK code. Unfortunately, the Go SDK is different from all other SDKs: "ExecuteFoo" in Go means what "StartFoo" means in other SDKs. So, `ExecuteActivity()` in Go does _not_ poll. A simple fix would be to use Python code: `client.execute_activity()`.

To see what I mean, see the Go code from the docs here:

```go
	handle, err := c.ExecuteActivity(context.Background(), activityOptions, helloworld.Activity, "Temporal") // Just sends it to the server
    ...
	err = handle.Get(context.Background(), &result) // this does the polling for result in Go!
```

1. **Connect**: Your application opens a connection to the Temporal Server using a Temporal Client
   configured with your namespace and credentials.
2. **Schedule**: The Server durably persists the Activity Task on the specified Task Queue so that
   the request survives Worker restarts and network interruptions.
3. **Poll**: A Worker that is polling that Task Queue picks up the Activity Task and prepares to
   execute it.
4. **Execute**: The Worker runs your Activity function with the provided arguments and reports the
   outcome back to the Server.
5. **Return**: The Server stores the result and returns it to the original caller through the
   `ActivityHandle` that was created when the Activity was scheduled.

Because the Server durably persists the Activity, it survives Worker restarts and network

> interruptions. If the Activity fails, the Server automatically retries it according to the Retry

Reviewer: > "it survives Worker restarts and network interruptions"

I feel like we use similar language for Workflows. Is it worth adding something like (I'm not saying this is the right phrasing)

> However, unlike a Workflow, an Activity is by default re-executed from the beginning on each attempt, so you should typically do one operation with side effects in an Activity. If you need to do two different operations (both with side effects), you should typically use a Workflow with two Activities.

Policy you configure.

### Standalone vs Workflow Activities

| | Workflow Activity | Standalone Activity |
|---|---|---|
| Orchestrated by | A Workflow Definition | Your application code (via the Temporal Client) |
| Started with | SDK-specific (for example, `workflow.ExecuteActivity()` in Go) | SDK-specific (for example, `client.ExecuteActivity()` in Go, `client.StartActivityAsync()` in .NET) |
| Retry policy | Set in `ActivityOptions` inside your Workflow | Set in `StartActivityOptions` when calling the client |

> | Visibility | Shown in the Workflow's Event History | Shown in the Activity list and count views |

Reviewer: If this is referring to what they see in the UI then

```suggestion
| Visibility | Shown in the Workflow's Event History | Shown in the Standalone Activity list and count views |
```
